Metasploit Database Access
If the postgresql service is running,
Metasploit will log findings and
information about discovered hosts,
services, or credentials in a convenient,
accessible database.
The database should have been populated
with the results of our TCP scan,
which we can display with
the services command.
The basic services command
displays all results,
but we can also filter
by port number,
service name,
and more as shown in the help
output of the services command.
In addition to a simple TCP port scanner,
we can also use the db_nmap wrapper
to execute Nmap inside Metasploit
and save the findings to
the database for ease of access.
The db_nmap command
shares Nmap’s syntax.
Let’s use it to run a port scan
against our Windows 10 system.
To display all discovered hosts up to this
point, we can issue the “hosts” command.
We can also show all services on
port 445 with the -p option.
To help organize content
in the database,
Metasploit allows us to store information
in separate workspaces.
When specifying a workspace, we will
only see database entries relevant
to that workspace, which helps
us easily manage data
from various enumeration
efforts and assignments.
We can list the available
workspaces with workspace.
To add a workspace, we can use -a
followed by the workspace name.
Then, to change to a
different workspace,
we provide the name of the
workspace as an argument.
Lastly, we can use -d, followed by the
workspace name to delete a workspace.